# Performance Comparison of H.264/MPEG-AVC, H.265/MPEG-HEVC and VP9 Encoders for Gaming Content
## 1. Overview
The high demand for high-resolution video content similar to high-definition (HD) and ultra-high-definition (UHD) videos leads to the wide increase in video traffic. Among them, the adopted compression technology of videos is one of the important aspects that it should be satisfied with the video coding standard with high efficiency, which aims to provide content with high quality for multiple users. This project investigates the performance comparison of H.264/MPEG-AVC, H.265/MPEG-HEVC and VP9 encoders supported by FFmpeg for gaming content. These encoders are set to two configurations namely PSNR-tuned (PT) model and Visual Quality-tuned (VQ) model. Bjøntegaard-Delta Rate method is used to evaluate these three encoders by considering the parameters include Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio (PSNR), Structural Similarity Index (SSIM), Multi-scale Structural Similarity Index (MS-SSIM) and Video Multi-Method Assessment Fusion (VMAF). As the results, the x265 encoder and libvpx encoder have lower BD-rate when comparing with x264 encoder, which means they can save bitrate under same quality. Meanwhile, x265 provides better performance than libvpx encoder, which has higher gains for low bitrates. In addition, the increase of the QP value for these encoders leads to the decrease of BD-rate.
## 2. Guidance
### 2.1 The 'method' file
In this file, the whole process of experiment is presented. Five diverse types of gaming content are selected for this project which include CSGO, DOTA2, RUST, STARCRAFT and WITCHER3. It includes the corresponding python files to execute the command of FFmpeg.  
### 2.2 The 'Evaluation' file
This file contains the necessary results that selected from the experimental data (Include PSNR, SSIM, MS-SSIM, VMAF and Bitrate). These results are inputted to the python file to execute the Bjøntegaard-Delta Rate algorithm. 
### 2.3 The other files
These files provide the results from VMAF evaluations for five gaming contents. The files contain 'vmaf' have the results of PSNR, SSIM, MS-SSIM and VMAF, while the files contain ‘videoformat’ have the results of bitrates. 
